\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

The Agda Universal Algebra Library
(\href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras}) is a
collection of types and programs (theorems and proofs) formalizing the
foundations of universal algebra in dependent type theory using the
\href{https://wiki.portal.chalmers.se/agda/pmwiki.php}{Agda} programming
language and proof assistant. The agda-algebras library now includes a
substantial collection of definitions, theorems, and proofs from
universal algebra and equational logic and as such provides many
examples that exhibit the power of inductive and dependent types for
representing and reasoning about general algebraic and relational
structures.

The first major milestone of the
\href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} project is
a new formal proof of \emph{Birkhoff's variety theorem} (also known as
the \emph{HSP theorem}), the first version of which was completed in
\href{https://github.com/ualib/ualib.github.io/blob/b968e8af1117fc77700d3a588746cbefbd464835/sandbox/birkhoff-exp-new-new.lagda}{January
of 2021}. To the best of our knowledge, this was the first time
Birkhoff's theorem had been formulated and proved in dependent type
theory and verified with a proof assistant.

In this paper, we present a subset of the
\href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} library
that culminates in a complete, self-contained, formal proof of the HSP
theorem. In the course of our exposition of the proof, we discuss some
of the more challenging aspects of formalizing universal algebra in type
theory and the issues that arise when attempting to constructively prove
some of the basic results in that area. We demonstrate that dependent
type theory and Agda, despite the demands they place on the user, are
accessible to working mathematicians who have sufficient patience and a
strong enough desire to constructively codify their work and formally
verify the correctness of their results.

Our presentation may be viewed as a sobering glimpse at the painstaking
process of doing mathematics in the languages of dependent types and
Agda. Nonetheless we hope to make a compelling case for investing in
these languages. Indeed, we are excited to share the gratifying rewards
that come with some mastery of type theory and interactive theorem
proving technologies.

\hypertarget{preliminaries}{%
\subsection{Preliminaries}\label{preliminaries}}

\hypertarget{logical-foundations}{%
\subsubsection{Logical foundations}\label{logical-foundations}}

An Agda program typically begins by setting some language options and by
importing types from existing Agda libraries. The language options are
specified using the \texttt{OPTIONS} \emph{pragma} which affect control
the way Agda behaves by controlling the deduction rules that are
available to us and the logical axioms that are assumed when the program
is type-checked by Agda to verify its correctness. Every Agda program in
the \href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} library
begins with the following line.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaSymbol{\{-\#}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{OPTIONS}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPragma{--without-K}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPragma{--exact-split}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPragma{--safe}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\#-\}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

These options control certain foundational assumptions that Agda makes
when type-checking the program to verify its correctness.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \texttt{-\/-without-K} disables
  \href{https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/axiom+K+\%28type+theory\%29}{Streicher's
  K axiom} ; see also the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1/language/without-k.html}{section
  on axiom K} in the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1.3/language}{Agda Language
  Reference Manual}.
\item
  \texttt{-\/-exact-split} makes Agda accept only those definitions that
  behave like so-called \emph{judgmental} equalities.
  \href{https://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~mhe}{Mart√≠n Escard√≥} explains this by
  saying it ``makes sure that pattern matching corresponds to Martin-L√∂f
  eliminators;'' see also the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1/tools/command-line-options.html\#pattern-matching-and-equality}{Pattern
  matching and equality section} of the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1.3/tools/}{Agda Tools}
  documentation.
\item
  \texttt{safe} ensures that nothing is postulated outright---every
  non-MLTT axiom has to be an explicit assumption (e.g., an argument to
  a function or module); see also
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1/tools/command-line-options.html\#cmdoption-safe}{this
  section} of the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1.3/tools/}{Agda Tools}
  documentation and the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1/language/safe-agda.html\#safe-agda}{Safe
  Agda section} of the
  \href{https://agda.readthedocs.io/en/v2.6.1.3/language}{Agda Language
  Reference}.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{agda-modules}{%
\subsubsection{Agda Modules}\label{agda-modules}}

The \texttt{OPTIONS} pragma is usually followed by the start of a
module. Indeed, the \texttt{HSP.lagda} program that is subject of this
paper begins with the following \texttt{import} directives, which import
the parts of the \href{https://agda.github.io/agda-stdlib/}{Agda
Standard Library} that we will use in our program.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaSymbol{\{-\#}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{OPTIONS}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPragma{--without-K}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPragma{--exact-split}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPragma{--safe}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\#-\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebras.Basic}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Signature}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Demos.HSP}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Signature}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{ùì•}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Agda.Primitive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚äî\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{lsuc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Set}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Data.Product}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£-syntax}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}√ó\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{\AgdaUnderscore{},\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Œ£}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{proj‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{fst}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{proj‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Function}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚àò\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{flip}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Injection}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Surjection}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Func}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü∂\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Level}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Relation.Binary}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Rel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Relation.Binary.Definitions}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Symmetric}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Transitive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Relation.Unary}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚äÜ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚àà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Relation.Binary.PropositionalEquality}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{as}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{‚â°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚â°\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Function.Definitions}%
\>[50]\AgdaSymbol{as}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FD}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{import}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Relation.Binary.Reasoning.Setoid}%
\>[50]\AgdaSymbol{as}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü∂\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[10]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{variable}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaGeneralizable{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{fst}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{setoids}{%
\subsubsection{Setoids}\label{setoids}}

A \emph{setoid} is a type packaged with an equivalence relation on the
collection of inhabitants of that type. Setoids are useful for
representing classical (set-theory-based) mathematics in a constructive,
type-theoretic way because most mathematical structures are assumed to
come equipped with some (often implicit) equivalence relation
manifesting a notion of equality of elements, and therefore a
type-theoretic representation of such a structure should also model its
equality relation.

The \href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} library
was first developed without the use of setoids, opting instead for
specially constructed experimental quotient types. However, this
approach resulted in code that was hard to comprehend and it became
difficult to determine whether the resulting proofs were fully
constructive. In particular, our initial proof of the Birkhoff variety
theorem required postulating function extensionality, an axiom that is
not provable in pure Martin-L√∂f type theory.{[}reference needed{]}

In contrast, our current approach using setoids makes the equality
relation of a given type explicit and this transparency can make it
easier to determine the correctness and constructivity of the proofs.
Using setiods we need no additional axioms beyond Martin-L√∂f type
theory; in particular, no function extensionality axioms are postulated
in our current formalization of Birkhoff's variety theorem.

Since it plays such a central role in the present development, we
reproduce in the appendix the definition of the \texttt{Setoid} type of
the \href{https://agda.github.io/agda-stdlib/}{Agda Standard Library}.
In addition to \texttt{Setoid}, much of our code employs the standard
library's \texttt{Func} record type which represents a function from one
setoid to another and packages such a function with a proof (called
\texttt{cong}) that the function respects the underlying setoid
equalities. In the list of imports above we renamed \texttt{Func} to the
more visually appealing long-arrow symbol \texttt{‚ü∂}, and we will refer
to its inhabitants as ``setoid functions'' throughout the paper.

A special example of a setoid function is the identity function from a
setoid to itself. We define it, along with a binary composition
operation for setoid functions, \texttt{\_‚ü®‚àò‚ü©\_}, as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ùëñùëë}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ùëñùëë}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®‚àò‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{C}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[8]\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{C}%
\>[15]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[18]\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B}%
\>[25]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[28]\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{C}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[218I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[218I]%
\>[17]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{projection-notation}{%
\subsubsection{Projection notation}\label{projection-notation}}

The definition of \texttt{Œ£} (and thus, of \texttt{√ó}) includes the
fields \texttt{proj‚ÇÅ} and \texttt{proj‚ÇÇ} representing the first and
second projections out of the product. However, we prefer the shorter
names \texttt{fst} and \texttt{snd} (hence \texttt{renaming} when
importing above) Alternatively, we use \texttt{‚à£\_‚à£} and \texttt{‚à•\_‚à•},
respectively, for the first and second projections out of a product.
This syntax is defined as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£\AgdaUnderscore{}‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£\AgdaUnderscore{}‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{fst}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•\AgdaUnderscore{}‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{z}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{z}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•\AgdaUnderscore{}‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

(Here we put the definitions inside an \emph{anonymous module}, which
starts with the \texttt{module} keyword followed by an underscore
instead of a module name. The purpose is simply to move the postulated
typing judgments---the ``parameters'' of the module, e.g.,
\texttt{A\ :\ Type\ Œ±}---out of the way so they don't obfuscate the
definitions inside the module.)

\hypertarget{inverses-of-setoid-functions}{%
\subsubsection{Inverses of setoid
functions}\label{inverses-of-setoid-functions}}

We define a data type that represent the semantic concept of the
\emph{image} of a function (cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Overture.Func.Inverses.html}{Overture.Func.Inverses}
module of the
\href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} library).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{data}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image\AgdaUnderscore{}‚àã\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaModule{Image\AgdaUnderscore{}‚àã\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

An inhabitant of \texttt{Image\ f\ ‚àã\ b} is a dependent pair
\texttt{(a\ ,\ p)}, where \texttt{a\ :\ A} and \texttt{p\ :\ b\ ‚âà\ f\ a}
is a proof that \texttt{f} maps \texttt{a} to \texttt{b}. Since the
proof that \texttt{b} belongs to the image of \texttt{f} is always
accompanied by a witness \texttt{a\ :\ A}, we can actually
\emph{compute} a (pseudo)inverse of \texttt{f}. For convenience, we
define this inverse function, which we call \texttt{Inv}, and which
takes an arbitrary \texttt{b\ :\ B} and a (witness, proof)-pair,
\texttt{(a\ ,\ p)\ :\ Image\ f\ ‚àã\ b}, and returns the witness
\texttt{a}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Inv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)\{}\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Inv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Given a setoid function \texttt{f}, \texttt{Inv\ f} is the
range-restricted right-inverse of \texttt{f}, which is easily proved as
follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{InvIsInverse ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Inv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{InvIsInverse ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{injective-setoid-functions}{%
\subsubsection{Injective setoid
functions}\label{injective-setoid-functions}}

We call a function \texttt{f\ :\ ùë®\ ‚ü∂\ ùë®} from one setoid
\texttt{ùë®\ =\ (A\ ,\ ‚âà‚ÇÄ)} to another \texttt{ùë©\ =\ (B\ ,\ ‚âà‚ÇÅ)}
\emph{injective} provided \texttt{‚àÄ\ a‚ÇÄ\ a‚ÇÅ}, if
\texttt{f\ ‚ü®\$‚ü©\ a‚ÇÄ\ ‚âà‚ÇÅ\ f\ ‚ü®\$‚ü©\ a‚ÇÅ}, then \texttt{a‚ÇÄ\ ‚âà‚ÇÄ\ a‚ÇÅ}. A
\emph{surjective function} is such that for all \texttt{b\ :\ B} there
exists \texttt{a\ :\ A} such that \texttt{f\ ‚ü®\$‚ü©\ a\ ‚âà‚ÇÅ\ b}.

We codify these notions in Agda and prove some of their properties
beginning inside the next module where we have set the stage by
declaring two setoids \texttt{ùë®} and \texttt{ùë©}, naming their equality
relations, and making some definitions from the standard library
available.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Surjection}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FD}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

The \href{https://agda.github.io/agda-stdlib/}{Agda Standard Library}
defines the type \texttt{Injective} to represent injective functions on
bare types and we use \texttt{Injective} to define the type
\texttt{IsInjective} representing the property of being an injective
setoid function (cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Overture.Func.Injective.html}{Overture.Func.Injective}
module of the
\href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} library).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[26]\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Injective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

We define a surjective setoid function in Agda as follows (cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Overture.Func.Surjective.html}{Overture.Func.Surjective}
module of the
\href{https://github.com/ualib/agda-algebras}{agda-algebras} library).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[27]\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaModule{Image\AgdaUnderscore{}‚àã\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

With the next definition we represent a \emph{right-inverse} of a
surjective setoid function.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{SurjInv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{SurjInv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Inv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{fE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Proving that the composition of injective functions is again injective
is simply a matter of composing the two assumed witnesses to
injectivity.

Proving that surjectivity is preserved under composition is only
slightly more involved.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-injective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[15]\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-injective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{finj}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ginj}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{finj}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ginj}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaBound{fE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{mp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{mp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fE}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{Image}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚àã}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{mp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gE}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{kernels}{%
\subsubsection{Kernels}\label{kernels}}

The \emph{kernel} of a function \texttt{f\ :\ A\ ‚Üí\ B} is defined
informally by \texttt{\{(x\ ,\ y)\ ‚àà\ A\ √ó\ A\ :\ f\ x\ =\ f\ y\}}. This
can be represented in Agda in a number of ways, but for our purposes it
is most convenient to define the kernel as an inhabitant of a (unary)
predicate over the square of the function's domain, as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Rel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaBound{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

The kernel of a function \texttt{f\ :\ ùê¥\ ‚ü∂\ ùêµ} from a setoid ùê¥ to a
setoid ùêµ (with carriers A and B, respectively) is defined informally by
\texttt{\{(x\ ,\ y)\ ‚àà\ A\ √ó\ A\ :\ f\ ‚ü®\$‚ü©\ x\ ‚âà‚ÇÇ\ f\ ‚ü®\$‚ü©\ y\}} and
may be formalized in Agda as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùê¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùêµ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùê¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùê¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùêµ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùêµ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{algebras}{%
\subsection{Algebras}\label{algebras}}

\hypertarget{basic-definitions}{%
\subsubsection{Basic definitions}\label{basic-definitions}}

Here we define algebras over a setoid, instead of a mere type with no
equivalence on it.

First we define an operator that translates an ordinary signature into a
signature over a setoid domain.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{EqArgs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Signature}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚â°}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{EqArgs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{u}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{v}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{u}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{v}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}%
\>[20]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{IsEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Signature}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{.}\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{u}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{v}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{eqv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚â°}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{EqArgs}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{eqv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{u}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{v}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{refl}%
\>[7]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[58]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Setoid.refl}%
\>[88]\AgdaBound{Œæ}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{sym}%
\>[7]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[58]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Setoid.sym}%
\>[88]\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Setoid.trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

We represent an algebra using a record type with two fields:
\texttt{Domain} is a setoid denoting the underlying \emph{universe} of
the algebra (informally, the set of elements of the algebra);
\texttt{Interp} represents the \emph{interpretation} in the algebra of
each operation symbol of the given signature. The record type
\texttt{Func} from the Agda Standard Library provides what we need for
an operation on the domain setoid.

Let us present the definition of the \texttt{Algebra} type and then
discuss the definition of the \texttt{Func} type that provides the
interpretation of each operation symbol.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{lsuc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{field}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚â°‚Üí‚âà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚â°}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{Setoid.\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚â°‚Üí‚âà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Setoid.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

We have thus codified the concept of (universal) algebra as a record
type with two fields

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  a function
  \texttt{f\ :\ Carrier\ (‚ü®\ ùëÜ\ ‚ü©\ Domain)\ ‚Üí\ Carrier\ Domain}
\item
  a proof \texttt{cong\ :\ f\ Preserves\ \_‚âà‚ÇÅ\_\ ‚ü∂\ \_‚âà‚ÇÇ\_} that
  \texttt{f} preserves the underlying setoid equalities.
\end{enumerate}

Comparing this with the definition of the \texttt{Func} (or
\texttt{\_‚ü∂\_}) type shown in the appendix, here \texttt{A} is
\texttt{Carrier\ (‚ü®\ ùëÜ\ ‚ü©\ Domain)} and \texttt{B} is
\texttt{Carrier\ Domain}. Thus \texttt{Interp} gives, for each operation
symbol in the signature \texttt{ùëÜ}, a setoid function
\texttt{f}---namely, a function where the domain is a power of
\texttt{Domain} and the codomain is \texttt{Domain}---along with a proof
that all operations so interpreted respect the underlying setoid
equality on \texttt{Domain}.

We define the following syntactic sugar: if \texttt{ùë®} is an algebra,
\texttt{ùîª{[}\ ùë®\ {]}} gives the setoid \texttt{Domain\ ùë®}, while
\texttt{ùïå{[}\ ùë®\ {]}} exposes the underlying carrier or ``universe'' of
the algebra \texttt{ùë®}; finally, \texttt{f\ ÃÇ\ ùë®} denotes the
interpretation in the algebra \texttt{ùë®} of the operation symbol
\texttt{f}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[23]\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[23]\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}ÃÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}%
\>[48]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[51]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{universe-lifting-of-algebra-types}{%
\subsubsection{Universe lifting of algebra
types}\label{universe-lifting-of-algebra-types}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{‚à£A‚à£}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Level}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1029I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚à£A‚à£}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1029I]%
\>[31]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[31]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1049I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1049I]%
\>[56]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\<%
\\
%
\>[56]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la=lb}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la=lb}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1099I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}%
\>[25]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚à£A‚à£}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1099I]%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}%
\>[25]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1115I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}%
\>[42]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1115I]%
\>[34]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}%
\>[42]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[34]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{la‚â°lb}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{la‚â°lb}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{product-algebras}{%
\subsubsection{Product Algebras}\label{product-algebras}}

(cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Algebras.Func.Products.html}{Algebras.Func.Products}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library}.)

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1224I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1224I]%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{Setoid.\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{;}%
\>[1251I]\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1251I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[12]\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1253I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}%
\>[27]\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[33]\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{IsEquivalence.refl}%
\>[59]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1253I]%
\>[19]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}%
\>[27]\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[31]\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{IsEquivalence.sym}%
\>[59]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[19]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{IsEquivalence.trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{flip}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f=g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{flip}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f=g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{homomorphisms}{%
\subsection{Homomorphisms}\label{homomorphisms}}

\hypertarget{basic-definitions-1}{%
\subsubsection{Basic definitions}\label{basic-definitions-1}}

Here are some useful definitions and theorems extracted from the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Homomorphisms.Func.Basic.html}{Homomorphisms.Func.Basic}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{compatible-map-op}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{compatible-map-op}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{compatible-map}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{compatible-map}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{compatible-map-op}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaComment{--\ The\ property\ of\ being\ a\ homomorphism.}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{field}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{compatible-map}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaComment{--\ The\ type\ of\ homomorphisms.}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Œ£}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{monomorphisms-and-epimorphisms}{%
\subsubsection{Monomorphisms and
epimorphisms}\label{monomorphisms-and-epimorphisms}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsMon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{field}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{HomReduct}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{HomReduct}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{mon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{mon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Œ£}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsMon}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{field}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{HomReduct}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{HomReduct}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Œ£}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{IsMon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{IsEpi}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{mon‚Üíintohom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{mon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{mon‚Üíintohom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhM}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhM}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhM}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{epi‚Üíontohom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{epi‚Üíontohom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhE}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhE}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhE}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{basic-properties-of-homomorphisms}{%
\subsubsection{Basic properties of
homomorphisms}\label{basic-properties-of-homomorphisms}}

Here are some definitions and theorems extracted from the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Homomorphisms.Func.Properties.html}{Homomorphisms.Func.Properties}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library}.

\hypertarget{composition-of-homomorphisms}{%
\paragraph{Composition of
homomorphisms}\label{composition-of-homomorphisms}}

The composition of homomorphisms is again a homomorphism. Similarly, the
composition of epimorphisms is again an epimorphism.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[1656I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1656I]%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ghom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{compatible-map}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ghom}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhom}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[1757I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gE}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hE}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[1757I]%
\>[10]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gE}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hE}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}%
\>[29]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhom}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ghom}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ghom}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}%
\>[29]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hepi}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gepi}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®‚àò‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-is-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hepi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gepi}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{universe-lifting-of-homomorphisms}{%
\paragraph{Universe lifting of
homomorphisms}\label{universe-lifting-of-homomorphisms}}

First we define the identity homomorphism for setoid algebras and then
we prove that the operations of lifting and lowering of a setoid algebra
are homomorphisms.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ùíæùíπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ùíæùíπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëñùëë}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âàÀ°\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflÀ°}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà ≥\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl ≥}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Level}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToFromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[22]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀ°}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToFromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{lower}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToFromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà ≥}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToFromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Level}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift ≥}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLiftÀ°}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToFromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToFromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLift-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ToLift-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}%
\>[2187I]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[2187I]%
\>[27]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ToFromLift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{homomorphisms-of-product-algebras}{%
\subsubsection{Homomorphisms of product
algebras}\label{homomorphisms-of-product-algebras}}

Suppose we have an algebra \texttt{ùë®}, a type \texttt{I\ :\ Type\ ùìò},
and a family \texttt{‚Ñ¨\ :\ I\ ‚Üí\ Algebra\ Œ≤\ ùëÜ} of algebras. We
sometimes refer to the inhabitants of \texttt{I} as \emph{indices}, and
call \texttt{‚Ñ¨} an \emph{indexed family of algebras}. If in addition we
have a family \texttt{ùíΩ\ :\ (i\ :\ I)\ ‚Üí\ hom\ ùë®\ (‚Ñ¨\ i)} of
homomorphisms, then we can construct a homomorphism from \texttt{ùë®} to
the product \texttt{‚®Ö\ ‚Ñ¨} in the natural way. Here is how we implement
these notions in dependent type theory (cf.~the
{[}Homomorphisms.Func.Products{]}{[}{]} module of the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda Universal Algebra
Library}).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[74]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö-hom-co}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ(}\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö-hom-co}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hhom}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{factorization-of-homomorphisms}{%
\subsubsection{Factorization of
homomorphisms}\label{factorization-of-homomorphisms}}

(cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Homomorphisms.Func.Factor.html}{Homomorphisms.Func.Factor}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library}.)

If \texttt{g\ :\ hom\ ùë®\ ùë©}, \texttt{h\ :\ hom\ ùë®\ ùë™}, \texttt{h} is
surjective, and \texttt{ker\ h\ ‚äÜ\ ker\ g}, then there exists
\texttt{œÜ\ :\ hom\ ùë™\ ùë©} such that \texttt{g\ =\ œÜ\ ‚àò\ h} so the
following diagram commutes:

\begin{verbatim}
ùë® --- h -->> ùë™
 \         .
  \       .
   g     œÜ
    \   .
     \ .
      V
      ùë©
\end{verbatim}

We will prove this in case h is both surjective and injective.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[2292I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)\{}\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[2292I]%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{gh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}%
\>[36]\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÉ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{gfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{gfunc}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{HomFactor}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÉ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äÜ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[13]\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{HomFactor}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Khg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜhom}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{gœÜh}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{kerpres}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÉ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÅ}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{kerpres}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hyp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Khg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hyp}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{SurjInv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hE}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÉ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InvIsInverse ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hE}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÉ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÉ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÉ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Khg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{gœÜh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{gœÜh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Khg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü∂\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{œÜcong}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜcomp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{compatible-map}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜcomp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[3][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[4]\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[38]\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜcong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∑}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{))))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜcong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{))))}%
\>[37]\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{gœÜh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[37]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{c}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[37]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜmap}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜcomp}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{isomorphisms}{%
\subsubsection{Isomorphisms}\label{isomorphisms}}

(cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Homomorphisms.Func.Isomorphisms.html}{Homomorphisms.Func.Isomorphisms}
of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda Universal
Algebra Library}.)

Two structures are \emph{isomorphic} provided there are homomorphisms
going back and forth between them which compose to the identity map.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{constructor}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{field}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{toIsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{toIsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{toIsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{toIsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Goal}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{fromIsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{fromIsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{fromIsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{fromIsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Goal}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{properties-of-isomorphisms}{%
\paragraph{Properties of
isomorphisms}\label{properties-of-isomorphisms}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùíæùíπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùíæùíπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\})(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\})(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âÖ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÑ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ŒΩ}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÅ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÉ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ùëì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ùëì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ùëî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ùëî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÑ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}%
\>[20]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÉ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÑ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to‚àºfrom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ŒΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ŒΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans‚ÇÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{bc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from‚àºto}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ab}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Fortunately, the lift operation preserves isomorphism (i.e., it's an
\emph{algebraic invariant}). As our focus is universal algebra, this is
important and is what makes the lift operation a workable solution to
the technical problems that arise from the noncumulativity of Agda's
universe hierarchy.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-AlgÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ToFromLiftÀ°}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{FromToLiftÀ°}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FromLift ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ToFromLift ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{FromToLift ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖÀ°}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ ≥}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{homomorphic-images}{%
\subsubsection{Homomorphic Images}\label{homomorphic-images}}

(cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Homomorphisms.Func.HomomorphicImages.html}{Homomorphisms.Func.HomomorphicImages}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library}.)

We begin with what seems, for our purposes, the most useful way to
represent the class of \emph{homomorphic images} of an algebra in
dependent type theory.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{lsuc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}IsHomImageOf\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{HomImages}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{HomImages}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

These types should be self-explanatory, but just to be sure, let's
describe the Sigma type appearing in the second definition. Given an
\texttt{ùëÜ}-algebra \texttt{ùë®\ :\ Algebra\ Œ±\ œÅ}, the type
\texttt{HomImages\ ùë®} denotes the class of algebras
\texttt{ùë©\ :\ Algebra\ Œ≤\ œÅ} with a map
\texttt{œÜ\ :\ ‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£\ ‚Üí\ ‚à£\ ùë©\ ‚à£} such that \texttt{œÜ} is a surjective
homomorphism.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-HomImage-lemma}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Lift-HomImage-lemma}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[3185I]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{from}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[3185I]%
\>[29]\AgdaFunction{‚àò-IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{fromIsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-‚âÖ}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{HomImage-‚âÖ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®'}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{HomImage-‚âÖ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{toIsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{subalgebras}{%
\subsection{Subalgebras}\label{subalgebras}}

\hypertarget{basic-definitions-2}{%
\subsubsection{Basic definitions}\label{basic-definitions-2}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚â§\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùìû}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùì•}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{basic-properties}{%
\subsubsection{Basic properties}\label{basic-properties}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚â§-reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{‚â§-reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùíæùíπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{mon‚Üí‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{mon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{mon‚Üí‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{mon‚Üíintohom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Injection}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{function}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{fun}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚â§-trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚â§-trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{finj}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ginj}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-injective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{finj}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ginj}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-trans-‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë™}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-trans-‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hinj}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚àò-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚àò-injective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{toIsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖB}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hinj}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{products-of-subalgebras}{%
\subsubsection{Products of subalgebras}\label{products-of-subalgebras}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{‚®ÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö-‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö-‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hM}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hhom}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{hi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{hi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖA}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hM}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hM}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{xy}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{terms}{%
\subsection{Terms}\label{terms}}

\hypertarget{basic-definitions-3}{%
\subsubsection{Basic definitions}\label{basic-definitions-3}}

Fix a signature \texttt{ùëÜ} and let \texttt{X} denote an arbitrary
nonempty collection of variable symbols. Assume the symbols in
\texttt{X} are distinct from the operation symbols of \texttt{ùëÜ}, that
is \texttt{X\ ‚à©\ ‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£\ =\ ‚àÖ}.

By a \emph{word} in the language of \texttt{ùëÜ}, we mean a nonempty,
finite sequence of members of \texttt{X\ ‚à™\ ‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£}. We denote the
concatenation of such sequences by simple juxtaposition.

Let \texttt{S‚ÇÄ} denote the set of nullary operation symbols of
\texttt{ùëÜ}. We define by induction on \texttt{n} the sets \texttt{ùëá‚Çô} of
\emph{words} over \texttt{X\ ‚à™\ ‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£} as follows
(cf.~\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1439851298/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8\&camp=1789\&creative=9325\&creativeASIN=1439851298\&linkCode=as2\&tag=typefunc-20\&linkId=440725c9b1e60817d071c1167dff95fa}{Bergman
(2012)} Def. 4.19):

\texttt{ùëá‚ÇÄ\ :=\ X\ ‚à™\ S‚ÇÄ} and \texttt{ùëá‚Çô‚Çä‚ÇÅ\ :=\ ùëá‚Çô\ ‚à™\ ùíØ‚Çô}

where \texttt{ùíØ‚Çô} is the collection of all \texttt{f\ t} such that
\texttt{f\ :\ ‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£} and \texttt{t\ :\ ‚à•\ ùëÜ\ ‚à•\ f\ ‚Üí\ ùëá‚Çô}. (Recall,
\texttt{‚à•\ ùëÜ\ ‚à•\ f} is the arity of the operation symbol f.)

We define the collection of \emph{terms} in the signature \texttt{ùëÜ}
over \texttt{X} by \texttt{Term\ X\ :=\ ‚ãÉ‚Çô\ ùëá‚Çô}. By an ùëÜ-\emph{term} we
mean a term in the language of \texttt{ùëÜ}.

The definition of \texttt{Term\ X} is recursive, indicating that an
inductive type could be used to represent the semantic notion of terms
in type theory. Indeed, such a representation is given by the following
inductive type.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{data}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[39]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}%
\>[19]\AgdaComment{--\ (‚Ñä\ for\ "generator")}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Term}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

This is a very basic inductive type that represents each term as a tree
with an operation symbol at each \texttt{node} and a variable symbol at
each leaf (\texttt{generator}).

\textbf{Notation}. As usual, the type \texttt{X} represents an arbitrary
collection of variable symbols. Recall, \texttt{ov\ œá} is our shorthand
notation for the universe level \texttt{ùìû\ ‚äî\ ùì•\ ‚äî\ lsuc\ œá}.

\hypertarget{equality-of-terms}{%
\subsubsection{Equality of terms}\label{equality-of-terms}}

We take a different approach here, using Setoids instead of quotient
types. That is, we will define the collection of terms in a signature as
a setoid with a particular equality-of-terms relation, which we must
define. Ultimately we will use this to define the (absolutely free) term
algebra as a Algebra whose carrier is the setoid of terms.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaComment{--\ Equality\ of\ terms\ as\ an\ inductive\ datatype}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{data}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚â°}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaComment{--\ Equality\ of\ terms\ is\ an\ equivalence\ relation}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Level}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isSym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Symmetric}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isSym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚â°.sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isSym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isSym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isTrans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Transitive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isTrans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚â°.trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isTrans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isTrans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isSym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isTrans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-term-algebra}{%
\subsubsection{The term algebra}\label{the-term-algebra}}

For a given signature \texttt{ùëÜ}, if the type \texttt{Term\ X} is
nonempty (equivalently, if \texttt{X} or \texttt{‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£} is nonempty),
then we can define an algebraic structure, denoted by \texttt{ùëª\ X} and
called the \emph{term algebra in the signature} \texttt{ùëÜ} \emph{over}
\texttt{X}. Terms are viewed as acting on other terms, so both the
domain and basic operations of the algebra are the terms themselves.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  For each operation symbol \texttt{f\ :\ ‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£}, denote by
  \texttt{f\ ÃÇ\ (ùëª\ X)} the operation on \texttt{Term\ X} that maps a
  tuple \texttt{t\ :\ ‚à•\ ùëÜ\ ‚à•\ f\ ‚Üí\ ‚à£\ ùëª\ X\ ‚à£} to the formal term
  \texttt{f\ t}.
\item
  Define \texttt{ùëª\ X} to be the algebra with universe
  \texttt{‚à£\ ùëª\ X\ ‚à£\ :=\ Term\ X} and operations \texttt{f\ ÃÇ\ (ùëª\ X)},
  one for each symbol \texttt{f} in \texttt{‚à£\ ùëÜ\ ‚à£}.
\end{itemize}

In \href{https://wiki.portal.chalmers.se/agda/pmwiki.php}{Agda} the term
algebra can be defined as simply as one might hope.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{TermSetoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{TermSetoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaField{Algebra.Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{TermSetoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaField{Algebra.Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Algebra.Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ss‚âêts}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ss‚âêts}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{interpretation-of-terms}{%
\subsubsection{Interpretation of terms}\label{interpretation-of-terms}}

The approach to terms and their interpretation in this module was
inspired by
\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's formal proof of Birkhoff's completeness theorem}.

A substitution from \texttt{X} to \texttt{Y} associates a term in
\texttt{X} with each variable in \texttt{Y}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaComment{--\ Parallel\ substitutions.}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaComment{--\ Application\ of\ a\ substitution.}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

An environment for \texttt{Œì} maps each variable \texttt{x\ :\ Œì} to an
element of \texttt{A}, and equality of environments is defined
pointwise.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚Çê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{‚à£A‚à£}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[3917I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚à£A‚à£}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[3917I]%
\>[16]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚Çê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\>[16]\AgdaSymbol{;}%
\>[3938I]\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[3938I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[19]\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[3940I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[3940I]%
\>[26]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[26]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{args}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{args}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{u‚âàv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{u‚âàv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{args}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x‚âày}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{args}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x‚âày}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

An equality between two terms holds in a model if the two terms are
equal under all valuations of their free variables
(cf.~\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's formal proof of Birkhoff's completeness theorem}).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[48]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚Çê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê‚ÜíEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê‚ÜíEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDottedPattern{\AgdaSymbol{.(}}\AgdaDottedPattern{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDottedPattern{\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{})}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDottedPattern{\AgdaSymbol{.(}}\AgdaDottedPattern{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDottedPattern{\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{})}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚âê‚ÜíEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê‚ÜíEqual}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\texttt{Equal} is an equivalence relation.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œì}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{IsEquivalence.refl}%
\>[21]\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{IsEquivalence.sym}%
\>[21]\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x=y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x=y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{IsEquivalence.trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ij}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{jk}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ij}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{jk}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Evaluation of a substitution gives an environment
(cf.~\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's formal proof of Birkhoff's completeness theorem})

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üßs}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üßs}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{substitution-lemma}{%
\subsubsection{Substitution lemma}\label{substitution-lemma}}

We prove that ‚ü¶t{[}œÉ{]}‚üßœÅ ‚âÉ ‚ü¶t‚üß‚ü¶œÉ‚üßœÅ
(cf.~\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's formal proof of Birkhoff's completeness theorem}).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{substitution}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[16]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[35]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚Çê}}%
\>[39]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üßs}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{substitution}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{substitution}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{substitution}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ts}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{compatibility-of-terms}{%
\subsubsection{Compatibility of terms}\label{compatibility-of-terms}}

We now prove two important facts about term operations. The first of
these, which is used very often in the sequel, asserts that every term
commutes with every homomorphism.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}%
\>[4324I]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[4324I]%
\>[17]\AgdaComment{-----------------------------------------}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[17]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[3][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[4]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[40]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[40]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Interp‚ÇÇ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{)(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[4]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{interpretation-of-terms-in-product-algebras}{%
\subsubsection{Interpretation of terms in product
algebras}\label{interpretation-of-terms-in-product-algebras}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{‚®ÖInterp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê‚ÜíEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{interp-prod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{interp-prod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê‚ÜíEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{interp-prod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖInterp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{j}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{k}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{interp-prod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{j}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{k}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{model-theory-and-equational-logic}{%
\subsection{Model Theory and Equational
Logic}\label{model-theory-and-equational-logic}}

(cf.~the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Varieties.Func.SoundAndComplete.html}{Varieties.Func.SoundAndComplete}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library})

\hypertarget{basic-definitions-4}{%
\subsubsection{Basic definitions}\label{basic-definitions-4}}

Let \texttt{ùëÜ} be a signature. By an \emph{identity} or \emph{equation}
in \texttt{ùëÜ} we mean an ordered pair of terms in a given context. For
instance, if the context happens to be the type \texttt{X\ :\ Type\ œá},
then an equation will be a pair of inhabitants of the domain of term
algebra \texttt{ùëª\ X}.

We define an equation in Agda using the following record type with
fields denoting the left-hand and right-hand sides of the equation,
along with an equation ``context'' representing the underlying
collection of variable symbols
(cf.~\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's formal proof of Birkhoff's completeness theorem}).

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{constructor}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âàÃá\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{field}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaField{cxt}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{lhs}%
\>[8]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cxt}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{rhs}%
\>[8]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cxt}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{public}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

We now define a type representing the notion of an equation
\texttt{p\ ‚âàÃá\ q} holding (when \texttt{p} and \texttt{q} are
interpreted) in algebra \texttt{ùë®}.

If \texttt{ùë®} is an \texttt{ùëÜ}-algebra we say that \texttt{ùë®}
\emph{satisfies} \texttt{p\ ‚âà\ q} provided for all environments
\texttt{œÅ\ :\ X\ ‚Üí\ ‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£} (assigning values in the domain of
\texttt{ùë®} to variable symbols in \texttt{X}) we have
\texttt{‚ü¶\ p\ ‚üß‚ü®\$‚ü©\ œÅ\ ‚âà\ ‚ü¶\ q\ ‚üß\ ‚ü®\$‚ü©\ œÅ}. In this situation, we
write \texttt{ùë®\ ‚äß\ (p\ ‚âàÃá\ q)} and say that \texttt{ùë®} \emph{models} the
identity \texttt{p\ ‚âà\ q}.

If \texttt{ùí¶} is a class of algebras, all of the same signature, we
write \texttt{ùí¶\ ‚ä´\ (p\ ‚âàÃá\ q)\ if,\ for\ every}ùë® ‚àà
ùí¶\texttt{,\ we\ have}ùë® ‚äß (p ‚âàÃá q)`.

Because a class of structures has a different type than a single
structure, we must use a slightly different syntax to avoid overloading
the relations \texttt{‚äß} and \texttt{‚âà}. As a reasonable alternative to
what we would normally express informally as \texttt{ùí¶\ ‚äß\ p\ ‚âà\ q}, we
have settled on \texttt{ùí¶\ ‚ä´\ (p\ ‚âàÃá\ q)} to denote this relation. To
reiterate, if \texttt{ùí¶} is a class of \texttt{ùëÜ}-algebras, we write
\texttt{ùí¶\ ‚ä´\ (p\ ‚âàÃá\ q)} provided every \texttt{ùë®\ ‚àà\ ùí¶} satisfies
\texttt{ùë®\ ‚äß\ (p\ ‚âàÃá\ q)}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚äß\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{term-identity}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ä´\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{equ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{equ}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

We denote by \texttt{ùë®\ ‚ä®\ ‚Ñ∞} the assertion that the algebra ùë® models
every equation in a collection \texttt{‚Ñ∞} of equations.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ä®\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{lhs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))(}\AgdaField{rhs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{equational-theories-and-models}{%
\subsubsection{Equational theories and
models}\label{equational-theories-and-models}}

If \texttt{ùí¶} denotes a class of structures, then \texttt{Th\ ùí¶}
represents the set of identities modeled by the members of \texttt{ùí¶}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Mod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{Mod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-entailment-relation}{%
\subsubsection{The entailment relation}\label{the-entailment-relation}}

Based on
\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's Agda formalization of Birkhoff's completeness theorem}.)

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{data}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ä¢\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ñπ\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{hyp}%
\>[8]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{let}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{in}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{app}%
\>[8]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ps}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{qs}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ps}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{qs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ps}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{qs}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{sub}%
\>[8]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œî}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œî}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢refl}%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}%
\>[30]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢sym}%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}%
\>[30]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{r}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚ä¢‚ñπ‚âàIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚ä¢‚ñπ‚âàIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{soundness}{%
\subsubsection{Soundness}\label{soundness}}

In any model ùë® that satisfies the equations ‚Ñ∞, derived equality is
actual equality
(cf.~\href{http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abela/agda/MultiSortedAlgebra.pdf}{Andreas
Abel's Agda formalization of Birkhoff's completeness theorem}.)

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Soundness}%
\>[4944I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[4944I]%
\>[17]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[40]\AgdaComment{--\ We\ assume\ an\ algebra\ ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[17]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[37]\AgdaComment{--\ that\ models\ all\ equations\ in\ ‚Ñ∞.}\<%
\\
%
\>[17]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üßs}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü™\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{IsEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{hyp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[36]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{app}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{es}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[36]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{es}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{sub}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Epq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[36]\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}%
\>[25]\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{substitution}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}%
\>[13]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü™}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Epq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü™}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[51]\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}%
\>[13]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü™}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{substitution}%
\>[45]\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}%
\>[25]\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\})}%
\>[37]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{refl}%
\>[45]\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Epq}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[37]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{sym}%
\>[45]\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}%
\>[71]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Epq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚ä¢trans}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Epq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Eqr}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{EqualIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{r}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Epq}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Eqr}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-closure-operators-h-s-p-and-v}{%
\subsection{The Closure Operators H, S, P and
V}\label{the-closure-operators-h-s-p-and-v}}

Fix a signature \texttt{ùëÜ}, let \texttt{ùí¶} be a class of
\texttt{ùëÜ}-algebras, and define

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \texttt{H\ ùí¶} = algebras isomorphic to a homomorphic image of a member
  of \texttt{ùí¶};
\item
  S ùí¶ = algebras isomorphic to a subalgebra of a member of ùí¶;
\item
  P ùí¶ = algebras isomorphic to a product of members of ùí¶.
\end{itemize}

A straight-forward verification confirms that \texttt{H}, \texttt{S},
and \texttt{P} are \emph{closure operators} (expansive, monotone, and
idempotent). A class \texttt{ùí¶} of \texttt{ùëÜ}-algebras is said to be
\emph{closed under the taking of homomorphic images} provided
\texttt{H\ ùí¶\ ‚äÜ\ ùí¶}. Similarly, \texttt{ùí¶} is \emph{closed under the
taking of subalgebras} (resp., \emph{arbitrary products}) provided
\texttt{S\ ùí¶\ ‚äÜ\ ùí¶} (resp., \texttt{P\ ùí¶\ ‚äÜ\ ùí¶}). The operators
\texttt{H}, \texttt{S}, and \texttt{P} can be composed with one another
repeatedly, forming yet more closure operators.

An algebra is a homomorphic image (resp., subalgebra; resp., product) of
every algebra to which it is isomorphic. Thus, the class \texttt{H\ ùí¶}
(resp., \texttt{S\ ùí¶}; resp., \texttt{P\ ùí¶}) is closed under
isomorphism.

A \emph{variety} is a class of \texttt{ùëÜ}-algebras that is closed under
the taking of homomorphic images, subalgebras, and arbitrary products.
To represent varieties we define types for the closure operators
\texttt{H}, \texttt{S}, and \texttt{P} that are composable. Separately,
we define a type \texttt{V} which represents closure under all three
operators, \texttt{H}, \texttt{S}, and \texttt{P}.

\hypertarget{basic-definitions-5}{%
\subsubsection{Basic definitions}\label{basic-definitions-5}}

We now define the type \texttt{H} to represent classes of algebras that
include all homomorphic images of algebras in the class---i.e., classes
that are closed under the taking of homomorphic images---the type
\texttt{S} to represent classes of algebras that closed under the taking
of subalgebras, and the type \texttt{P} to represent classes of algebras
closed under the taking of arbitrary products.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{H}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{H}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

A class \texttt{ùí¶} of \texttt{ùëÜ}-algebras is called a \emph{variety} if
it is closed under each of the closure operators \texttt{H}, \texttt{S},
and \texttt{P} defined above. The corresponding closure operator is
often denoted \texttt{ùïç} or \texttt{ùí±}, but we will denote it by
\texttt{V}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[10]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{d}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µà}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[46]\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ¥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µà}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{d}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{H}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œ¥}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µà}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[5353I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[5353I]%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{V-‚âÖ-lc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{V-‚âÖ-lc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{spA'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{lAimgA'}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{spA'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{AimgA'}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{AimgA'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®'}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{AimgA'}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-HomImage-lemma}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{lAimgA'}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{properties}{%
\subsubsection{Properties}\label{properties}}

\hypertarget{idempotence-of-s}{%
\paragraph{Idempotence of S}\label{idempotence-of-s}}

\texttt{S} is a closure operator. The facts that S is monotone and
expansive won't be needed, so we omit the proof of these facts. However,
we will make use of idempotence of \texttt{S}, so we prove that property
as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{S-idem}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[9]\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}%
\>[31]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äÜ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≥}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·∂ú}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaFunction{S-idem}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚â§B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x‚â§A}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{sB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚â§-trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚â§B}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{algebraic-invariance-of}{%
\paragraph{Algebraic invariance of ‚äß}\label{algebraic-invariance-of}}

The binary relation \texttt{‚äß} would be practically useless if it were
not an \emph{algebraic invariant} (i.e., invariant under isomorphism).
Let us now verify that the models relation we defined above has this
essential property.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚äß-I-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[27]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[30]\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚âÖ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}%
\>[37]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[40]\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚äß-I-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Apq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{mkiso}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f‚àºg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{g‚àºf}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[28]\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f‚àºg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{ff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[29]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Apq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{ff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[29]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f‚àºg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[28]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}%
\>[25]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}%
\>[51]\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}%
\>[25]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}%
\>[51]\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{fh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{g}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{gh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{subalgebraic-invariance-of}{%
\paragraph{Subalgebraic invariance of
‚äß}\label{subalgebraic-invariance-of}}

Identities modeled by an algebra \texttt{ùë®} are also modeled by every
subalgebra of \texttt{ùë®}, which fact can be formalized as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚äß-S-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[29]\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}%
\>[36]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[39]\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚äß-S-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Apq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà‚ÇÇ\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[5741I]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[5741I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[9]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[28]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[9]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Apq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[9]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hh}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[9]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[28]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{b}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{product-invariance-of}{%
\paragraph{Product invariance of ‚äß}\label{product-invariance-of}}

An identity satisfied by all algebras in an indexed collection is also
satisfied by the product of algebras in that collection.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚äß-P-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚äß-P-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíúpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíúpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[5926I]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[5926I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[10]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{interp-prod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[10]\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œæ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[10]\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{interp-prod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[10]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{ps-sp}{%
\paragraph{PS ‚äÜ SP}\label{ps-sp}}

Another important fact we will need about the operators \texttt{S} and
\texttt{P} is that a product of subalgebras of algebras in a class
\texttt{ùí¶} is a subalgebra of a product of algebras in \texttt{ùí¶}. We
denote this inclusion by \texttt{PS‚äÜSP}, which we state and prove as
follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[10]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{PS‚äÜSP}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äÜ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{PS‚äÜSP}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚âÖ‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{kB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{kB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[10]\AgdaField{fst}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖA‚â§‚®ÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ¨}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖA‚â§‚®ÖB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö-‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{oa‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ¨}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{kB}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-refl}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-trans-‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚âÖ‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®ÖA‚â§‚®ÖB}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{identity-preservation}{%
\subsubsection{Identity preservation}\label{identity-preservation}}

The classes \texttt{H\ ùí¶}, \texttt{S\ ùí¶}, \texttt{P\ ùí¶}, and
\texttt{V\ ùí¶} all satisfy the same set of equations. We will only use a
subset of the inclusions used to prove this fact. (For a complete proof,
see the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Varieties.Func.Preservation.html}{Varieties.Func.Preservation}
module of the \href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras}{Agda
Universal Algebra Library}.)

\hypertarget{h-preserves-identities}{%
\paragraph{H preserves identities}\label{h-preserves-identities}}

First we prove that the closure operator H is compatible with identities
that hold in the given class.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[10]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{H-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{H}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{H-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{BimgOfA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{B‚äßpq}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{IH}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{IH}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}%
\>[25]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}%
\>[25]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{SetoidReasoning}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{BimgOfA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜE}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{BimgOfA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{SurjInv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜE}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InvIsInverse ≥}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜE}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{B‚äßpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{B‚äßpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[6247I]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{begin}}\<%
\\
\>[6247I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[11]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[53]\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[11]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âàÀò‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[11]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}%
\>[22]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[53]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{IH}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[11]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}%
\>[22]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß‚ÇÅ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{))}%
\>[53]\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{comm-hom-term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[11]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{œÜ‚Åª¬π}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âà‚ü®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ∂}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}\<%
\\
%
\>[11]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}%
\>[53]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àé}}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{s-preserves-identities}{%
\paragraph{S preserves identities}\label{s-preserves-identities}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{S-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{S-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚äß-S-invar}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{B‚â§A}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

The obvious converse is barely worth the bits needed to formalize it,
but we will use it below, so let's prove it now.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{S-id2}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{S-id2}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Spq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Spq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚â§-reflexive}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{p-preserves-identities}{%
\paragraph{P preserves identities}\label{p-preserves-identities}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{P-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{P-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖ‚®ÖA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚äß-I-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IH}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚âÖ‚®ÖA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ih}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{ih}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{IH}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{IH}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚äß-P-invar}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùíú}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ih}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{v-preserves-identities}{%
\paragraph{V preserves identities}\label{v-preserves-identities}}

Finally, we prove the analogous preservation lemmas for the closure
operator \texttt{V}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{a‚ÑìŒπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{V-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{V-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚â§‚®ÖA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{BimgA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{H-id1}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{a‚ÑìŒπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{a‚ÑìŒπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)\}\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{spK‚äßpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë©}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{spA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{BimgA}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{spA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{a‚ÑìŒπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{spA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p‚®ÖA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚â§‚®ÖA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{spK‚äßpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{a‚ÑìŒπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{spK‚äßpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S-id1}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{a‚ÑìŒπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P-id1}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{th-ux1d4a6-th-v-ux1d4a6}{%
\paragraph{Th ùí¶ ‚äÜ Th (V ùí¶)}\label{th-ux1d4a6-th-v-ux1d4a6}}

From \texttt{V-id1} it follows that if ùí¶ is a class of algebras, then
the set of identities modeled by the algebras in \texttt{ùí¶} is contained
in the set of identities modeled by the algebras in \texttt{V\ ùí¶}. In
other terms, \texttt{Th\ ùí¶\ ‚äÜ\ Th\ (V\ ùí¶)}. We formalize this
observation as follows.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{classIds-‚äÜ-VIds}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}%
\>[33]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{classIds-‚äÜ-VIds}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V-id1}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{free-algebras}{%
\subsection{Free Algebras}\label{free-algebras}}

\hypertarget{the-absolutely-free-algebra-ux1d47b-x}{%
\subsubsection{The absolutely free algebra ùëª
X}\label{the-absolutely-free-algebra-ux1d47b-x}}

The term algebra \texttt{ùëª\ X} is \emph{absolutely free} (or
\emph{universal}, or \emph{initial}) for algebras in the signature
\texttt{ùëÜ}. That is, for every ùëÜ-algebra \texttt{ùë®}, the following hold.

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  Every function from \texttt{ùëã} to \texttt{‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£} lifts to a
  homomorphism from \texttt{ùëª\ X} to \texttt{ùë®}.
\item
  The homomorphism that exists by item 1 is unique.
\end{enumerate}

We now prove this in
\href{https://wiki.portal.chalmers.se/agda/pmwiki.php}{Agda}, starting
with the fact that every map from \texttt{X} to \texttt{‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£} lifts
to a map from \texttt{‚à£\ ùëª\ X\ ‚à£} to \texttt{‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£} in a natural way,
by induction on the structure of the given term.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ÃÇ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{flcong}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{flcong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âê}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[30]\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{flcong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}.rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflexive}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{‚â°.cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{flcong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}.gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{flcong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Naturally, at the base step of the induction, when the term has the form
\texttt{generator} x, the free lift of \texttt{h} agrees with
\texttt{h}. For the inductive step, when the given term has the form
\texttt{node\ f\ t}, the free lift is defined as follows: Assuming (the
induction hypothesis) that we know the image of each subterm
\texttt{t\ i} under the free lift of \texttt{h}, define the free lift at
the full term by applying \texttt{f\ ÃÇ\ ùë®} to the images of the subterms.

The free lift so defined is a homomorphism by construction. Indeed, here
is the trivial proof.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{lift-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{lift-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hhom}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hcomp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{compatible-map}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hcomp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift-func}\AgdaSymbol{)\{}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âê-isRefl}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hfunc}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hhom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{Œª\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hcomp}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{a}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùïå[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ∑}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ∑}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ∑}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-relatively-free-algebra-ux1d53d}{%
\subsubsection{The relatively free algebra
ùîΩ}\label{the-relatively-free-algebra-ux1d53d}}

We now define the algebra \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}}, which plays the role of
the relatively free algebra, along with the natural epimorphism
\texttt{epiùîΩ\ :\ epi\ (ùëª\ X)\ ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}} from \texttt{ùëª\ X} to
\texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeAlgebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FreeDomain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FreeDomain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}%
\>[6874I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}%
\>[39]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaDatatype{Term}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[6874I]%
\>[23]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}%
\>[39]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\>[23]\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{isEquivalence}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚ä¢‚ñπ‚âàIsEquiv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\end{code}

The interpretation of an operation is simply the operation itself. This
works since \texttt{‚Ñ∞\ ‚ä¢\ X\ ‚ñπ\_‚âà\_} is a congruence.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FreeInterp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü®}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùëÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{FreeDomain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FreeDomain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{FreeInterp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{node}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ts}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FreeInterp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{app}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{h}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FreeDomain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{FreeInterp}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{basic-properties-of-free-algebras}{%
\subsubsection{Basic properties of free
algebras}\label{basic-properties-of-free-algebras}}

In the code below, \texttt{X} will play the role of an arbitrary
collection of variables; it would suffice to take \texttt{X} to be the
cardinality of the largest algebra in ùí¶, but since we don't know that
cardinality, we leave \texttt{X} aribtrary for now.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPostulate{Level}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Eq}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaComment{--\ indexes\ the\ collection\ of\ equations\ modeled\ by\ ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaField{lhs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{eq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{rhs}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{eq}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Eq}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{eqv}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{eqv}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞‚ä¢[\AgdaUnderscore{}]‚ñπThùí¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞‚ä¢[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]‚ñπThùí¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sound}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{kA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Soundness}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeAlgebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-natural-epimorphism-from-ux1d47b-x-to-ux1d53d-x}{%
\paragraph{The natural epimorphism from ùëª X to ùîΩ{[} X
{]}}\label{the-natural-epimorphism-from-ux1d47b-x-to-ux1d53d-x}}

Next we define an epimorphism from \texttt{ùëª\ X} onto the relatively
free algebra \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}}. Of course, the kernel of this
epimorphism will be the congruence of \texttt{ùëª\ X} defined by
identities modeled by (\texttt{S\ ùí¶}, hence) \texttt{ùí¶}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hepi}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}%
\>[41]\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âàF‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{TX}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{TX}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âàT‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflT}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âê\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âàT‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âàF‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{rfl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflF}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{gnl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{f}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{s}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InterpF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àò}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{TX}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{F}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{record}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{f}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{c}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{hepi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hepi}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflT}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hepi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflF}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsEpi.HomReduct}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]-is-epic}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{IsSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]-is-epic}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{IsEpi.isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-kernel-of-the-natural-epimorphism}{%
\paragraph{The kernel of the natural
epimorphism}\label{the-kernel-of-the-natural-epimorphism}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{class-models-kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{class-models-kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞‚ä¢[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]‚ñπThùí¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{kernel-in-theory}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äÜ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{kernel-in-theory}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}%
\>[7273I]\AgdaBound{vkA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{classIds-‚äÜ-VIds}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[7273I]%
\>[38]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{class-models-kernel}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{vkA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{kerùîΩ‚äÜEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Equal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{kerùîΩ‚äÜEqual}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S-id1}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞‚ä¢[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]‚ñπThùí¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùí¶‚ä´‚Üí‚Ñ∞‚ä¢}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œá}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùí¶‚ä´‚Üí‚Ñ∞‚ä¢}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{hyp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ä¢\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ñπ\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{hyp}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-universal-property}{%
\paragraph{The universal property}\label{the-universal-property}}

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}%
\>[7385I]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\<%
\\
\>[.][@{}l@{}]\<[7385I]%
\>[9]\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeAlgebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ-ModTh-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Mod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}%
\>[15]\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ-ModTh-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚ààModThK}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{isEpi}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaRecord{‚ü∂}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚ü®\$‚ü©\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pq}%
\>[7501I]\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
\>[7501I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[22]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{A‚ààModThK}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{kernel-in-theory}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[22]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{id}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{isEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{œÜ}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{compatible}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{isEpi}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{cong}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{InterpA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚â°.refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaField{isSurjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{isEpi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaInductiveConstructor{eq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚Ñä}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{y}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ-ModTh-epi-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Mod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ-ModTh-epi-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚ààModThK}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àò-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ-ModTh-epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{A‚ààModThK}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ToLift-epi}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{products-of-classes-of-algebras}{%
\subsection{Products of classes of
algebras}\label{products-of-classes-of-algebras}}

We want to pair each \texttt{(ùë®\ ,\ p)} (where p : ùë® ‚àà S ùí¶) with an
environment \texttt{œÅ\ :\ X\ ‚Üí\ ‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£} so that we can quantify over
all algebras \emph{and} all assignments of values in the domain
\texttt{‚à£\ ùë®\ ‚à£} to variables in \texttt{X}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{))\{}\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeAlgebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}%
\>[20]\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñë‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñë‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œ£[}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚àà}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{]}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{√ó}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Env}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñë‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Next we define a useful type, \texttt{skEqual}, which we use to
represent a term identity \texttt{p\ ‚âà\ q} for any given
\texttt{i\ =\ (ùë®\ ,\ sA\ ,\ œÅ)} (where \texttt{ùë®} is an algebra,
\texttt{sA\ :\ ùë®\ ‚àà\ S\ ùí¶} is a proof that \texttt{ùë®} belongs to
\texttt{S\ ùí¶}, and \texttt{œÅ} is a mapping from \texttt{X} to the domain
of \texttt{ùë®}). Then we prove \texttt{AllEqual‚äÜkerùîΩ} which asserts that
if the identity \texttt{p\ ‚âà\ q} holds in all \texttt{ùë®\ ‚àà\ S\ ùí¶} (for
all environments), then \texttt{p\ ‚âà\ q} holds in the relatively free
algebra \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}}; equivalently, the pair \texttt{(p\ ,\ q)}
belongs to the kernel of the natural homomorphism from \texttt{ùëª\ X}
onto \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}}. We will use this fact below to prove that
there is a monomorphism from \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}} into \texttt{‚Ñ≠}, and
thus \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}} is a subalgebra of ‚Ñ≠, so belongs to
\texttt{S\ (P\ ùí¶)}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{skEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñë‚Å∫}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaPrimitive{Type}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{skEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{AllEqual‚äÜkerùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{skEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{AllEqual‚äÜkerùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}%
\>[41]\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âàF‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Sùí¶‚ä´pq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œ≤}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ä´}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{‚âàÃá}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Sùí¶‚ä´pq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{x}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âàF‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùí¶‚ä´‚Üí‚Ñ∞‚ä¢}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S-id2}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Sùí¶‚ä´pq}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{hom‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{hom‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚®Ö-hom-co}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{h}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùëª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{h}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{lift-hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Domain}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{InterpF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{F}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{refl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{reflF}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âàF‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{‚à£F‚à£}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{kerùîΩ‚äÜker‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚äÜ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{kerùîΩ‚äÜker‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Goal}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{fl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{fl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{t}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{subgoal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{subgoal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{kerùîΩ‚äÜEqual}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{sA}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{fl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{subgoal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{fl}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{HomFactor}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{kerùîΩ‚äÜker‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]-is-epic}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ker‚Ñ≠‚äÜkerùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{hom‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ker‚Ñ≠‚äÜkerùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{E‚ä¢pq}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{pqEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{skEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{pqEqual}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{goal}\<%
\\
\>[2][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Environment}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶\AgdaUnderscore{}‚üß·µ¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{\AgdaUnderscore{}‚âà\AgdaUnderscore{}}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{;}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß·µ¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚ü¶}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚üß·µ¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaField{‚ü®\$‚ü©}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\>[3]\AgdaFunction{goal}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}%
\>[8057I]\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[8057I][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[11]\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{trans}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{pKq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSymbol{)(}\AgdaFunction{sym}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{free-lift-interp}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaField{snd}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{)))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{E‚ä¢pq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ä¢}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚ñπ}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaDatatype{‚âà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{E‚ä¢pq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{AllEqual‚äÜkerùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{pqEqual}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{monùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{mon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{monùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{isMon}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{isMon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{IsMon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à£}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{isHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{isMon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{homùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaField{isInjective}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{isMon}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜpq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ker‚Ñ≠‚äÜkerùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÜpq}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

Now that we have proved the existence of a monomorphism from
\texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}} to \texttt{‚Ñ≠} we are in a position to prove that
\texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}} is a subalgebra of ‚Ñ≠, so belongs to
\texttt{S\ (P\ ùí¶)}. In fact, we will show that \texttt{ùîΩ{[}\ X\ {]}} is
a subalgebra of the \emph{lift} of \texttt{‚Ñ≠}, denoted \texttt{‚Ñì‚Ñ≠}.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ‚â§‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚â§}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ‚â§‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{mon‚Üí‚â§}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{monùîΩ‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{SPùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{SPùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S-idem}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{SSPùîΩ}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{PS‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{PS‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñë‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{ùîÑ‚Å∫}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{((Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{fst}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{i}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚à•}}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚âÖ-refl}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{SP‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{SP‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{PS‚äÜSP}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{PS‚Ñ≠}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{SSPùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{SSPùîΩ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{SP‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ‚â§‚Ñ≠}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

\hypertarget{the-hsp-theorem}{%
\subsection{The HSP Theorem}\label{the-hsp-theorem}}

Finally, we are in a position to prove Birkhoff's celebrated variety
theorem.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Pred}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaGeneralizable{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaGeneralizable{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{private}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ov}\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeHom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}(}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaPrimitive{‚äî}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{)\{}\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{FreeAlgebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaArgument{I}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñê}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{‚Ñ∞}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[\AgdaUnderscore{}]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Birkhoff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚àÄ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Mod}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{))}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\>[1]\AgdaFunction{Birkhoff}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ModThA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V-‚âÖ-lc}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{VlA}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{spùîΩA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{S}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{P}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{spùîΩA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{SPùîΩ}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩlA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩlA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ-ModTh-epi-lift}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(Œª}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ModThA}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{p}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{p}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{q}\AgdaSymbol{\})}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{lAimgùîΩA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{IsHomImageOf}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{lAimgùîΩA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epi‚Üíontohom}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSymbol{)}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{epiùîΩlA}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{VlA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Lift-Alg}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{VlA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîΩ[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{spùîΩA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaInductiveConstructor{,}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{lAimgùîΩA}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

The converse inclusion, \texttt{V\ ùí¶\ ‚äÜ\ Mod\ (Th\ (V\ ùí¶))}, is a simple
consequence of the fact that \texttt{Mod\ Th} is a closure operator.
Nonetheless, completeness demands that we formalize this inclusion as
well, however trivial the proof.

\begin{code}%
\>[0]\<%
\\
\>[0][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{1}}]%
\>[1]\AgdaKeyword{module}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{\AgdaUnderscore{}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaRecord{Algebra}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{where}\<%
\\
\>[1][@{}l@{\AgdaIndent{0}}]%
\>[2]\AgdaKeyword{open}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaModule{Setoid}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{ùîª[}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{]}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{using}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{()}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaKeyword{renaming}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{Carrier}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{to}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaField{A}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{)}\<%
\\
%
\\[\AgdaEmptyExtraSkip]%
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Birkhoff-converse}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{:}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{Œ±}\AgdaSymbol{\}\{}\AgdaBound{œÅ·µÉ}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{‚Üí}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaOperator{\AgdaFunction{‚àà}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Mod}\AgdaSymbol{\{}\AgdaArgument{X}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{A}\AgdaSymbol{\}}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{Th}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{(}\AgdaFunction{V}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{‚Ñì}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaFunction{Œπ}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùí¶}\AgdaSymbol{))}\<%
\\
%
\>[2]\AgdaFunction{Birkhoff-converse}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{vA}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pThq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaSymbol{=}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{pThq}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{ùë®}\AgdaSpace{}%
\AgdaBound{vA}\<%
\\
\>[0]\<%
\end{code}

We have thus proved that every variety is an equational class.

Readers familiar with the classical formulation of the Birkhoff HSP
theorem as an ``if and only if'' assertion might worry that the proof is
still incomplete. However, recall that in the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Varieties.Func.Preservation.html}{Varieties.Func.Preservation}
module we proved the following identity preservation lemma:

\texttt{V-id1\ :\ ùí¶\ ‚ä´\ p\ ‚âàÃá\ q\ ‚Üí\ V\ ùí¶\ ‚ä´\ p\ ‚âàÃá\ q}

Thus, if \texttt{ùí¶} is an equational class---that is, if \texttt{ùí¶} is
the class of algebras satisfying all identities in some set---then
\texttt{V\ ùí¶} ‚äÜ ùí¶\texttt{.\ \ On\ the\ other\ hand,\ we\ proved\ that}V`
is expansive in the
\href{https://ualib.github.io/agda-algebras/Varieties.Func.Closure.html}{Varieties.Func.Closure}
module:

\texttt{V-expa\ :\ ùí¶\ ‚äÜ\ V\ ùí¶}

so \texttt{ùí¶} (= \texttt{V\ ùí¶} = \texttt{HSP\ ùí¶}) is a variety.

Taken together, \texttt{V-id1} and \texttt{V-expa} constitute formal
proof that every equational class is a variety.

This completes the formal proof of Birkhoff's variety theorem.

\hypertarget{appendix}{%
\subsection{Appendix}\label{appendix}}

The \texttt{Setoid} type is defined in the
\href{https://agda.github.io/agda-stdlib/}{Agda Standard Library} as
follows.

\begin{verbatim}
record Setoid c ‚Ñì : Set (suc (c ‚äî ‚Ñì)) where
  field
    Carrier       : Set c
    _‚âà_           : Rel Carrier ‚Ñì
    isEquivalence : IsEquivalence _‚âà_
\end{verbatim}

The \texttt{Func} type is defined in the
\href{https://agda.github.io/agda-stdlib/}{Agda Standard Library} as
follows.

\begin{verbatim}
  record Func : Set (a ‚äî b ‚äî ‚Ñì‚ÇÅ ‚äî ‚Ñì‚ÇÇ) where
    field
      f    : A ‚Üí B
      cong : f Preserves _‚âà‚ÇÅ_ ‚ü∂ _‚âà‚ÇÇ_

    isCongruent : IsCongruent f
    isCongruent = record
      { cong           = cong
      ; isEquivalence‚ÇÅ = isEquivalence From
      ; isEquivalence‚ÇÇ = isEquivalence To
      }

    open IsCongruent isCongruent public
      using (module Eq‚ÇÅ; module Eq‚ÇÇ)
\end{verbatim}

Here, \texttt{A} and \texttt{B} are setoids with respective equality
relations \texttt{‚âà‚ÇÅ} and \texttt{‚âà‚ÇÇ}.

